#Tilte:Assessment of Imja Glacier Lake outburst Flood(GLOF) Risk in Dudh Koshi River Basin using Remote Sensing Techniques
#Authors: Kamal P.Buddhathoki, O.R.Bajracharya & B.K Pokharel
#Date: December 2010
#Published by Department of Hydrology and Meteorology
  #Address: Babarmnahal, GPO Box 406, Kathmandu,Nepal
  
  
  Summary of report
  The process of fast glacial retreat and expansion of glacial lakes could be the wake of recent global warming and leading climatic changes.
  Glacila lakes that are dammed with unconsolidated weak natural moraines pose potential risk of their catastrophic failure, causing a huge flash flood in the downstream areas commonly
  known as Glacier Lake Outburst Flood(FLOF).
  This study focuses on the use of remote sensing technology and other methods applied in Imja glacier lake for potential risk assessment.Imja lake is the one of head source of Dudh Koshi
  river, with many glacier lakes in Dudh Koshi river basin.Imja glacier is a bigger one and other are found to be a considerable size.
  In Nepal many GLOF events have occured periodically but most of them were not recorded.The first mitigation program against GLOF in Nepal was undertaken in Tsho Rolpa, the 
  largest glacier lake in Nepal.
  Study of glacier lakes is very imperative for the planning and implementation of any socioeconomic and water resources development project. GLOF causes and have caused damange to human live 
  and infrastructures.
  Debris deposited by flood, landslide and temporary damming due to flood can cause the major to the people living hinderances downstream.
  A sudden burst of Imja lake will cause extensive damange along the entire length of the Imja Khola/Dudh Koshi valleys down to the confluence with Sun Koshi, an overall distance of about 
  90km.
  A study showed that a minimum estimated outburst flood from Imja Glacier Lake would affect significant changes on the 
  Imja Lake is located in Solukhumbu district, Sagarmantha Zone, Eastern Development Region of Nepal at aerial distances of about 163 km from Kathmandu and about 6 km south of Mount 
  Everest. The lake is an intra-glacier lake in the Imja glacier and its two major tributary glaciers are Lhotse Shar glacier flowing from northeast and Ambulapcha glacier from south.
  It is located south east of Chokarma Tsho and northeast of Ambulapcha Tsho.
  
  
  Surface Area and computed volume of Imja Glacier Lake. This file shows the area in km2, m2 and volume in m3 of Imja Glacier Lake for years 1653,1975 1978,1984,1986,1991,1992,1996,
  1997,1999,2001,2004,2008.The surface area, volume is increasing every year which reflects how rapidly glaciers are melting.
  
